Many speculations have been made on who is the official author of 
The Iliad and the Odyssey very little is known about their alleged 
author though. Most evidence points to Homer a greek poet. Little is 
known about homer himself due to how long ago in history and the time he
 lived and when he passed away. Little is known about Homer and many 
scholars question whether he existed at 
all. What we do 
know of him is he he was blind and may have been from island of Chios he
 also played a major role in the shaping and storylines of The Iliad and
 the Odyssey and that it is probable that Homer lived in Ionia. Ionia is
 the central part of the western seaboard of Asia Minor. In the earliest
 known manuscripts, both The Iliad and The Odyssey are written in Ionic 
dialect. Many people say he really was a writer ahead of his time. The 
Odyssey and The Iliad influenced Greek culture, education, and morality.

While reading the Iliad, I could not find a specific purpose to the 
text. What it seemed like was it was written as a text book for back 
then but now a days it seems like something more for pleasure reading or
 entertainment. Homer does tell the story of the war between the Trojans
 and Greeks, but the main purpose of the text was simply just to put it 
on paper and to preserve the culture. The Odyssey focuses on life’s 
greater purpose through the fulfillment of destiny, perseverance, and 
loyalty.

So what exactly is The Iliad and the Odyssey about? These epic 
stories are about the Mycenaean or Bronze Age, ancient Greeks, who 
flourished from about 1600-1100 BC. This is roughly about the time Moses
 led the Israelites from Egypt through the time David ruled a united 
Jewish nation; by most accounts, Moses led the Jews out of Egypt and 
Troy fell somewhere around 1300-1200 BCE.
Concerned for his comrades but still too proud to help them himself, 
Achilles agrees to a plan proposed by Nestor that will allow his beloved
 friend Patroclus to take his place in battle, wearing his armor. 
Patroclus is a fine warrior, and his presence on the battlefield helps 
the Achaeans push the Trojans away from the ships and back to the city 
walls. But the counterattack soon falters. Apollo knocks Patroclus’s 
armor to the ground, and Hector slays him. Fighting then breaks out as 
both sides try to lay claim to the body and armor. Hector ends up with 
the armor, but the Achaeans, thanks to a courageous effort by Menelaus 
and others, manage to bring the body back to their camp. When Achilles 
discovers that Hector has killed Patroclus, he fills with such grief and
 rage that he agrees to reconcile with Agamemnon and rejoin the battle. 
Thetis goes to Mount Olympus and persuades the god Hephaestus to forge 
Achilles a new suit of armor, which she presents to him the next 
morning. Achilles then rides out to battle at the head of the Achaean 
army.
Meanwhile, Hector, not expecting Achilles to rejoin the battle, has 
ordered his men to camp outside the walls of Troy. But when the Trojan 
army glimpses Achilles, it flees in terror back behind the city walls. 
Achilles cuts down every Trojan he sees. Strengthened by his rage, he 
even fights the god of the river Xanthus, who is angered that Achilles 
has caused so many corpses to fall into his streams. Finally, Achilles 
confronts Hector outside the walls of Troy. Ashamed at the poor advice 
that he gave his comrades, Hector refuses to flee inside the city with 
them. Achilles chases him around the city’s periphery three times, but 
the goddess Athena finally tricks Hector into turning around and 
fighting Achilles. In a dramatic duel, Achilles kills Hector. He then 
lashes the body to the back of his chariot and drags it across the 
battlefield to the Achaean camp. Upon Achilles’ arrival, the triumphant 
Achaeans celebrate Patroclus’s funeral with a long series of athletic 
games in his honor. Each day for the next nine days, Achilles drags 
Hector’s body in circles around Patroclus’s funeral bier.
At last, the gods agree that Hector deserves a proper burial. Zeus 
sends the god Hermes to escort King Priam, Hector’s father and the ruler
 of Troy, into the Achaean camp. Priam tearfully pleads with Achilles to
 take pity on a father bereft of his son and return Hector’s body. He 
invokes the memory of Achilles’ own father, Peleus. Deeply moved, 
Achilles finally relents and returns Hector’s corpse to the Trojans. 
Both sides agree to a temporary truce, and Hector receives a hero’s 
funeral.